{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1038\cocoasubrtf360
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red26\green26\blue26;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww18700\viewh15040\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\b\fs24 \cf0 Interview advice\

\b0 \
- google for advice\
\
- have something concrete to ask. ie. imagine you have the job and ask a question about some aspect that troubles you, or might be problematic.\
\

\b - marc:\

\f1\b0\fs26 \cf2 \uc0\u8234 Think positive, play up your strengths (practice the art of the humble brag)\uc0\u8236 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural
\cf2 Think about what's interesting about them as an institution\
match your alignments\
also, you know that Kiwis like a flashy resume\
drop the fellowships you've had\
just casually\
the luminaries you worked with\
but some passion goes along way.\
you like this stuff\
\
Simply, my goal as a teacher is to present the material as clearly as possible. I guide the students through the distinctions and nuances of new ideas which they may connect with (or challenge by using) their own prior learning and experience. The key is to engage learners in deeper thinking. Reflection is essential to my practice, as I often evaluate myself to improve my own teaching. i initiate this by drawing feedback from colleagues and students themselves. Beyond learner management, this evaluation also aims to discover the best practices in pedagogy and content delivery. Inquiry is a key element to my practice: firstly as an active teaching method to promote learner thinking (probing student responses, forging links between ideas, prompting challenges), and secondly as a mindset imparted to students, so they take away approaches that will eventually lead them towards self-directed discovery.\'a0\
\
interview with aut: deficit thinking. had an mold of what he wants.\
\
- about delaying the start. started discussions with cremer group but need time to develop ideas.\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\b \cf2 - alex\
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\b0 \cf2 Know your stories.\
1. Follow the advice in the attached PDF.\
\
2. Additionally, prepare answers to the following typical job\
questions and tailor them to the role you're applying for at AUT as\
much as possible. \'a0Read AUT's mission statement if they have one!\
\
a. Tell me about yourself.\
Give a brief description of your professional career.\
\
For example, here's the answer i prepared for Google. \'a0For the past\
six years i've been working as a professional mathematician and\
algorist on a variety of technical projects. \'a0Most recently, i've\
worked with the New Zealand government lab, Landcare Research, to\
develop a new open-source geospatial analysis system for worldwide\
scientific collaboration. \'a0More specifically, i designed and\
implemented the discrete global grid underlying the system. \'a0I enjoy\
tackling complex problems, learning new things, and working on teams.\
\
Notice the bullet point summary at the end.\
\
b. What are your strengths?\
Or some rephrasing of that, such as: What makes you an ideal candidate\
for this position?\
Give bullet points with some supporting detail, and be prepared,\
should they probe you, to further back up those bullet points with\
examples from your resume.\
\
c. What are your weaknesses?\
Or some rephrasing of that. \'a0This question tests your self-awareness.\
Give one or two honest but non-catastrophic weaknesses and how you've\
been addressing them. \'a0In the course of your story, turn the weakness\
into a strength.\
\
For example, maybe you've recently noticed that you have difficulty\
saying no to projects, that you take on too much at times. \'a0This has\
been causing you stress, and so you've started implementing a system\
(GTD!) to better manage your workflow. Consequently you are becoming\
better at gauging and prioritizing your project load, which has led\
you to make better calls on what projects to take on when.\
\
Notice the situation-action-response structure in that story.\
\
d. Give an example of a time you led a team (or a team through a crisis).\
Situation-action-response! \'a0Highlight your skills!\
\
Good luck and let me know how it goes!\
\
\
\
- read 'why theory matters' to have something to say about the general field.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\b \cf2 - caroline + joszef\
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\b0 \cf2 Why do you want to come here? (write out 2 pages) shows how enthusiastic you are\
- where do you see yourself in 10 years?\
- strengths and weaknesses\
- what teaching can you do?\
- are you going to come here if we offer? yes.\
- how can you add to cross department collaborations.\
- have questions for them: eg. what do you like about the place? what don't you like? how much admin? how easy is it to go to conferences or on research leave? what is your expectations for grants - ie. can you pay for students/postdocs?\
- what would you work on if you were on the moon (ie. with no collaborators)\
- what are the three main questions in your field (ie. big picture)\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\ql\qnatural
\cf2 when applying for grants etc: Awake emotions. 
\b Transparency and direction.
\b0  Talk in acts not hope.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural
\cf2 \
\
}