This brief note gives my impressions of the paper.

Summary
=======
This is a foundational paper that studies turn-based multiplayer
multi-outcome games of perfect information.

It shows how one can deduce that certain games or classes of games
admit finite-state Nash Equilibria from the fact that their two-player
win/lose versions admit finite-state winning strategies. 

The results generalise some of [1,4,15,17]. 

Of course the details matter as to whether or not the results are
useful. To that end, the authors apply their results to a variant of
energy-parity games [5] and lexicographic product of mean-payoff and
reachability games.


Assessment
==========

1. I find transfer results very interesting and appreciate that the
authors applied their results to two concrete classes of games (as
just mentioned).

2. The stated motivation for multiple players is that this is crucial
in a distributed setting (pg 3). However, both cited references [1,2]
are from the verification literature and not from the distributed
computing/systems literature.  Moreover, distributed systems typically
induce multiplayer games of imperfect information (and which are not
turn-based). Perhaps there are cases in [1,2] which are more relevant
to the current study (I did not check).

3. The authors write "This article extends and supersedes the earlier
[12] which appeared in the proceedings of Strategic Reasoning 2016".
It would have helped (for evaluating the paper) to know more precisely
the extent of the extension.

4. The relationship between determinacy in the two-player games in a
class and the existence of NE in the multiplayer games in that class
is an important one that appears in a number of settings not discussed
in the submission.  e.g., in the context of deciding if a concurrent
mean-payoff game has a NE in pure strategies [UW] uses the fact that
ordinary (i.e., two-player, zero-sum) mean-payoff games are solvable.
e.g., a general technique for reducing the existence of a NE to
solving a certain two-player game is given in [BBMU].

[UW]
The Complexity of Nash Equilibria in Limit-Average Games
Ummels and Wojtczak

[BBMU]
Pure Nash Equilibria in Concurrent Deterministic Games
Bouyer, Brenguier, Markey, Ummels

Thus, some comments and comparison with such proofs could be added. In
particular, it would be helpful to write which ideas from such proofs
(if any) are systemised in the transfer results. Some of this is
implied by section 5.2 where useful properties of classes of games
(such as prefix-independence, a commonly used assumption for proving
NE exist) are compared with the main criterion used in the proofs
(i.e., regular optimality). 

5. Two types of transfer results are stated:
- for a given game (theorem 12),
- for a class of games (theorem 8).

This distinction is a subtle one and I am pleased to see it here.

6. Some of the definitions could use more intuition. That said, the
authors made a good effort to simplify notation and present clear
definitions. 

In Summary: This is a foundational study that shows how to lift
finite-state determinacy to the existence of finite-state Nash
Equilibria. The only shortcoming I see is a weak justification of the
model of games, and some scope for comparing the techniques with known
techniques for deciding if NE exist or proving that they always do.
