{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1038\cocoasubrtf360
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww12240\viewh14920\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Sasha arrived in March. He supervised and collaborated with a student. He has not solved a technical problem since he arrived. He spread himself too thin. He can't see the big picture and needs lots of guidance. He is not independent yet and given years out of his phd i don't hold much hope that he can build a research team.\
\
Can't identify feasible problems with a clear plan to route to publication. \
\
Didn't realize the mess he was in.\
\
Basic concrete tasks he did, slowly.\
\
find something helmut thinks is interesting and kris thinks is feasible.\
\
when you see a definition -- work through it as if you were trying to unwrap it while reading a proof.\
\
marc\
- take night off\
- compartmentalize. write up what to do on monday, on tuesday, \'85 how do i accelerate, how do i deliver. involves planning. split day into problem A and problem B. 
\b rotation.
\b0 \
- see a movie, somebody else to do the thinking. receiving rather than processing. \
- approach work from 
\b rested
\b0  perspective. do something that nourishes me. get more functional.\
- must prepare for a long night. food, body, \
- hr dimension - after holidays.\
\
kylie\
- big picture is made of lots of small pictures\
- what are the tools i need to see the big picture; or to be more efficient\
\
me\
- im not good at working by myself. find it hard to keep focused on a problem.\
- can't handle more than 2 or 3 projects at a time. i forget the details of each one.\
- what can i do to absorb/internalise mathematics better. so that i can talk about the main ideas without having to consult the paper.\
\
kap\
- only keep good people around you\
- try only do things that make you happy/content/peaceful\
\
- research analyst. \
-- time moves to slow for things that need to be done.\
-- chasing money for projects.\
-- less than academic thinkers. have to break things down for them.\
\
write to : {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.media-maker.net/"}}{\fldrslt http://www.media-maker.net/}}\
\
AUT interview\
- came across as thinking no one in their department knows theory; i meant 'pure theory' - theory for its own sake.\
- said it is not clear why i applied for the post.\
- \
}